docs/getting_started/configuration/options.rst, before:

.. _configuration_options:

Configuration Options
=====================

Async PRAW's configuration options are broken down into the following categories:

- :ref:`basic_options`
- :ref:`oauth_options`
- :ref:`site_options`
- :ref:`misc_options`
- :ref:`custom_options`

All of these options can be provided in any of the ways mentioned in
:ref:`configuration`.

.. _basic_options:

Basic Configuration Options
---------------------------

:check_for_updates: When ``true``, check for new versions of Async PRAW. When a newer
    version of Async PRAW is available a message is reported via standard error
    (default: ``true``).
:user_agent: (Required) A unique description of your application. The following format
    is recommended according to `Reddit's API Rules
    <https://github.com/reddit/reddit/wiki/API#rules>`_: ``<platform>:<app ID>:<version
    string> (by u/<reddit username>)``.

.. _oauth_options:

OAuth Configuration Options
---------------------------

:client_id: (Required) The OAuth client ID associated with your registered Reddit
    application. See :ref:`oauth` for instructions on registering a Reddit application.
:client_secret: The OAuth client secret associated with your registered Reddit
    application. This option is required for all application types, however, the value
    must be set to ``None`` for **installed** applications.
:redirect_uri: The redirect URI associated with your registered Reddit application. This
    field is unused for **script** applications and is only needed for both **web**
    applications, and **installed** applications when the :meth:`.url` method is used.
:password: The password of the Reddit account associated with your registered Reddit
    **script** application. This field is required for **script** applications, and
    Async PRAW assumes it is working with a **script** application by its presence.
:username: The username of the Reddit account associated with your registered Reddit
    **script** application. This field is required for **script** applications, and
    Async PRAW assumes it is working with a **script** application by its presence.

.. _site_options:

Reddit Site Configuration Options
---------------------------------

Async PRAW can be configured to work with instances of Reddit which are not hosted at
`reddit.com <https://www.reddit.com>`_. The following options may need to be updated in
order to successfully access a third-party Reddit site:

:comment_kind: The type prefix for comments on the :class:`.Reddit` instance (default:
    ``t1_``).
:message_kind: The type prefix for messages on the :class:`.Reddit` instance (default:
    ``t4_``).
:oauth_url: The URL used to access the :class:`.Reddit` instance's API (default:
    ``https://oauth.reddit.com``).
:reddit_url: The URL used to access the :class:`.Reddit` instance. Async PRAW assumes
    the endpoints for establishing OAuth authorization are accessible under this URL
    (default: ``https://www.reddit.com``).
:redditor_kind: The type prefix for redditors on the :class:`.Reddit` instance (default:
    ``t2_``).
:short_url: The URL used to generate short links on the :class:`.Reddit` instance
    (default: ``https://redd.it``).
:submission_kind: The type prefix for submissions on the :class:`.Reddit` instance
    (default: ``t3_``).
:subreddit_kind: The type prefix for subreddits on the :class:`.Reddit` instance
    (default: ``t5_``).

.. _misc_options:

Miscellaneous Configuration Options
-----------------------------------

These are options that do not belong in another category, but still play a part in Async
PRAW.

:ratelimit_seconds: Controls the maximum number of seconds Async PRAW will capture
    ratelimits returned in JSON data. Because this can be as high as 14 minutes, only
    ratelimits of up to 5 seconds are captured and waited on by default.

    .. note::

        Async PRAW sleeps for the ratelimit value plus 1 second.

    See :ref:`ratelimits` for more info.
:timeout: Controls the amount of time Async PRAW will wait for a request from Reddit to
    complete before throwing an exception. By default, Async PRAW waits 16 seconds
    before throwing an exception.
:warn_comment_sort: When ``true``, log a warning when the ``comment_sort`` attribute of
    a submission is updated after ``_fetch()`` has been called (default: ``true``).

.. _custom_options:

Custom Configuration Options
----------------------------

Your application can utilize PRAW's configuration system in order to provide its own
custom settings. Async PRAW utilizes the the same configuration system as PRAW.

For instance you might want to add an ``app_debugging: true`` option to your
application's ``praw.ini`` file. To retrieve the value of this custom option from an
instance of :class:`.Reddit` you can execute:

.. code-block:: python

    reddit.config.custom["app_debugging"]

.. note::

    Custom Async PRAW configuration environment variables are not supported. You can
    directly access environment variables via ``os.getenv``.

Commit message:

Add support for window size config
CR fixes

(cherry picked from commit praw-dev/praw@ba1b87d76cf721c6a52f1500bab28ab51d3a0575)

Fix another test

(cherry picked from commit praw-dev/praw@bf79ea2046d186f7729c6201b2fd9ef0b00841d4)

Fix a test

(cherry picked from commit praw-dev/praw@b8ee8e6f87ed97d09728333a43e0902f3ba19a90)

How about this

(cherry picked from commit praw-dev/praw@1c4590b08a66f0bee4d6d8c1758d4381684a6c28)

Add to changelog

(cherry picked from commit praw-dev/praw@12ee566c646e15bac362fa506f7bf9caad2ff805)

Update logging docs

(cherry picked from commit praw-dev/praw@e4bb2ec49a8694c019f193957263c295cc28ac52)

Add doc note here

(cherry picked from commit praw-dev/praw@77101333591a6b1cb5034e1c171c599ab9adc595)

Fix black

(cherry picked from commit praw-dev/praw@c5fa92e95df369f30b9f0914a708ab15663e3fed)

Bare bones implementation

(cherry picked from commit praw-dev/praw@2f4d3d92c5031574347176f6589fc8fe98b4aaba)

docs/getting_started/configuration/options.rst, after:

.. _configuration_options:

Configuration Options
=====================

Async PRAW's configuration options are broken down into the following categories:

- :ref:`basic_options`
- :ref:`oauth_options`
- :ref:`site_options`
- :ref:`misc_options`
- :ref:`custom_options`

All of these options can be provided in any of the ways mentioned in
:ref:`configuration`.

.. _basic_options:

Basic Configuration Options
---------------------------

:check_for_updates: When ``true``, check for new versions of Async PRAW. When a newer
    version of Async PRAW is available a message is reported via standard error
    (default: ``true``).
:user_agent: (Required) A unique description of your application. The following format
    is recommended according to `Reddit's API Rules
    <https://github.com/reddit/reddit/wiki/API#rules>`_: ``<platform>:<app ID>:<version
    string> (by u/<reddit username>)``.

.. _oauth_options:

OAuth Configuration Options
---------------------------

:client_id: (Required) The OAuth client ID associated with your registered Reddit
    application. See :ref:`oauth` for instructions on registering a Reddit application.
:client_secret: The OAuth client secret associated with your registered Reddit
    application. This option is required for all application types, however, the value
    must be set to ``None`` for **installed** applications.
:redirect_uri: The redirect URI associated with your registered Reddit application. This
    field is unused for **script** applications and is only needed for both **web**
    applications, and **installed** applications when the :meth:`.url` method is used.
:password: The password of the Reddit account associated with your registered Reddit
    **script** application. This field is required for **script** applications, and
    Async PRAW assumes it is working with a **script** application by its presence.
:username: The username of the Reddit account associated with your registered Reddit
    **script** application. This field is required for **script** applications, and
    Async PRAW assumes it is working with a **script** application by its presence.

.. _site_options:

Reddit Site Configuration Options
---------------------------------

Async PRAW can be configured to work with instances of Reddit which are not hosted at
`reddit.com <https://www.reddit.com>`_. The following options may need to be updated in
order to successfully access a third-party Reddit site:

:comment_kind: The type prefix for comments on the :class:`.Reddit` instance (default:
    ``t1_``).
:message_kind: The type prefix for messages on the :class:`.Reddit` instance (default:
    ``t4_``).
:oauth_url: The URL used to access the :class:`.Reddit` instance's API (default:
    ``https://oauth.reddit.com``).
:reddit_url: The URL used to access the :class:`.Reddit` instance. Async PRAW assumes
    the endpoints for establishing OAuth authorization are accessible under this URL
    (default: ``https://www.reddit.com``).
:redditor_kind: The type prefix for redditors on the :class:`.Reddit` instance (default:
    ``t2_``).
:short_url: The URL used to generate short links on the :class:`.Reddit` instance
    (default: ``https://redd.it``).
:submission_kind: The type prefix for submissions on the :class:`.Reddit` instance
    (default: ``t3_``).
:subreddit_kind: The type prefix for subreddits on the :class:`.Reddit` instance
    (default: ``t5_``).

.. _misc_options:

Miscellaneous Configuration Options
-----------------------------------

These are options that do not belong in another category, but still play a part in Async
PRAW.

:ratelimit_seconds: Controls the maximum number of seconds Async PRAW will capture
    ratelimits returned in JSON data. Because this can be as high as 14 minutes, only
    ratelimits of up to 5 seconds are captured and waited on by default.

    .. note::

        Async PRAW sleeps for the ratelimit value plus 1 second.

    See :ref:`ratelimits` for more info.
:timeout: Controls the amount of time Async PRAW will wait for a request from Reddit to
    complete before throwing an exception. By default, Async PRAW waits 16 seconds
    before throwing an exception.
:warn_comment_sort: When ``true``, log a warning when the ``comment_sort`` attribute of
    a submission is updated after ``_fetch()`` has been called (default: ``true``).
:window_size: The number of seconds between rate limit resets (default: 600).

.. _custom_options:

Custom Configuration Options
----------------------------

Your application can utilize PRAW's configuration system in order to provide its own
custom settings. Async PRAW utilizes the the same configuration system as PRAW.

For instance you might want to add an ``app_debugging: true`` option to your
application's ``praw.ini`` file. To retrieve the value of this custom option from an
instance of :class:`.Reddit` you can execute:

.. code-block:: python

    reddit.config.custom["app_debugging"]

.. note::

    Custom Async PRAW configuration environment variables are not supported. You can
    directly access environment variables via ``os.getenv``.
