docs/getting_started/installation.rst, before:

Installing PRAW
===============

PRAW supports Python 3.5+. The recommended way to install PRAW is via ``pip``.

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install asyncpraw

.. note:: Depending on your system, you may need to use ``pip3`` to install
          packages for Python 3.

.. warning:: Avoid using ``sudo`` to install packages. Do you `really` trust
             this package?

For instructions on installing Python and pip see "The Hitchhiker's Guide to
Python" `Installation Guides
<https://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/starting/installation/>`_.

Updating PRAW
-------------

PRAW can be updated by running:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install --upgrade asyncpraw

Installing Older Versions
-------------------------

Older versions of PRAW can be installed by specifying the version number as
part of the installation command:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install asyncpraw==3.6.0

Installing the Latest Development Version
-----------------------------------------

Is there a feature that was recently merged into PRAW that you cannot wait to
take advantage of? If so, you can install PRAW directly from GitHub like so:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install --upgrade https://github.com/praw-dev/asyncpraw/archive/master.zip

You can also directly clone a copy of the repository using git, like so:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/praw-dev/asyncpraw.git

Commit message:

- Renamed PRAW to Async PRAW. - Updated docs outside of doc strings. - Made few changes to make comment_forest.py work properly. - Added `.update()` to the `RedditBase` class for the end user to explicitly fetch the object.

docs/getting_started/installation.rst, after:

Installing Async PRAW
=====================

Async PRAW supports Python 3.6+. The recommended way to install Async PRAW is via ``pip``.

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install asyncpraw

.. note:: Depending on your system, you may need to use ``pip3`` to install
          packages for Python 3.

.. warning:: Avoid using ``sudo`` to install packages. Do you `really` trust
             this package?

For instructions on installing Python and pip see "The Hitchhiker's Guide to
Python" `Installation Guides
<https://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/starting/installation/>`_.

Updating Async PRAW
-------------------

Async PRAW can be updated by running:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install --upgrade asyncpraw

Installing Older Versions
-------------------------

Older versions of Async PRAW can be installed by specifying the version number as
part of the installation command:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install asyncpraw==7.0.0

Installing the Latest Development Version
-----------------------------------------

Is there a feature that was recently merged into Async PRAW that you cannot wait to
take advantage of? If so, you can install Async PRAW directly from GitHub like so:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install --upgrade https://github.com/praw-dev/asyncpraw/archive/master.zip

You can also directly clone a copy of the repository using git, like so:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/praw-dev/asyncpraw.git
